repartition scenarios docs (#108)
loadimpact/k6-docs: src/data/markdown/docs/01 guides/02 Using k6/14 Scenarios/01 Executors/04 ramping-vus.md

---
title: 'Ramping VUs'
excerpt: ''
---

> ### 🎉 New in v0.27.0
>
> This feature is new as of version 0.27.0. Usage of this feature is optional and for the vast majority,
> existing scripts and configurations will continue to work as before. For a list of breaking changes,
> see the [k6 v0.27.0 release notes](https://github.com/loadimpact/k6/releases/tag/v0.27.0)).

## Description

A variable number of VUs execute as many iterations as possible for a specified
amount of time. This executor is equivalent to the global `stages` option.

## Options

In addition to the [common configuration options](/using-k6/scenarios#common-options) this executor
also adds the following options:

| Option             | Type    | Description                                                                   | Default |
| ------------------ | ------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `startVUs`         | integer | Number of VUs to run at test start.                                           | `1`     |
| `stages`           | array   | Array of objects that specify the target number of VUs to ramp up or down to. | `[]`    |

> | `gracefulRampDown` | string  | Time to wait for iterations to finish before starting new VUs.                | `"30s"` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `gracefulRampDown` | string  | Time to wait for an already started iteration to finish before stopping it during a ramp down.                | `"30s"` |
```
